What is Javascript?
 Javscript is a light weight object-oriented programming language which is used by several websites for scripting the webpages.


 Variables in Javascript : 
 - Variables are the containers which stores the data.
 - We can store array, object, string, numbers.
 - This is Javascript can change a variable type in runtime.
 -This is called dynamically typed language.
 - Means you can change through run time the type of the variable.
 - Static type means need to declare which type of variable it is after that only you can perform any operation.
 - But in Javascript you can change the type of the vraibale in runtime also and you can also perform the required operations.

 Rules for choosing Variables :
 - letters, digits, underscore and $ sign are allowed.
 - Must begin with a $, _ or a letter.
 - Javacsript reserved words cannot be used a svariable name.
 - Javacsript variable names are case sensitive like sneha and Sneha both are different variable names.


 Difference between let, var and const :

 var : var is globally scoped while let and const are block scoped.
       var can be updated and re-declared within its scope.
       let can be updated but not re-declared.
       const can neither be updated nor be re-declared.

Primitive Datatypes and Objects : 
 - There are 7 primitive Datatypes
 - These are fundamental data types 

 Data type : means what data to be stored in a variable.
 Objects are non-primitive Datatypes.
 N - null
 N - numbers
 S - String
 S - Symbol
 B - Boolean
 B - BigInt
 U - undefined

If object is declared as const then you can add the key items to the object. Because by declaring a constant object it will be considered as a refernce variable.
- You can add the new key items to the object but you cannot add te new value to it like numbers or string.

Expressions and Conditionals : 
- A fragment of code that produces a value is called an expression.
- Every value written literally is an expression.
- ex : 77 or "Sneha".

Conditional Statements : 
Sometimes we might have to execute a block of code based on some Conditions.
- In javascript we have three forms of if else Statements
1. if Statement
2. if... else Statement
3. if... else... if ... else Statement.


Loops in Javascript : 
- Loops are used when you want to perform repeated action.
- if you are assigned a task of printing numbers 1 to 100 then you can use loops to reduce your work.

Types of Loops in Javacsript:
- for loop -> Loop a block of code no of times.
- for in loop -> loops through the key of an object.
- for of loop -> loops through the values of an object.
- while loop -> loops a block of code based on a speific condition.
- do while loop -> while loop variant which runs atleast once.


Functions : It is a block of code where we can use them again so that we can reduce the line of code.


Strings : It is a collection of characters and it is written within a double quote.

// Note : We can insert variable directly in template literal. This is called as String Interpolition. 

Other Escape characters are as follows : 
\n -> NewLine.
\t -> Tab
\r -> Carriage Return

Methods in String :
1. Slice : It will slice the text it will take the arguments if 2 arguments are given first argumwnt will give the 
          index of the first letter and the second argument will be the index-1.

important Note : Strings are immutable In order to access the characters at an index we can use the following syntax 
let name = "Sneha";
console.log(name[0]) -> Prints S
console.log(name[1]) -> Prints n 

Arrays : Arrays are variable which can hold more than one value.
         With the help of index number we can access the values in the array.
         Arrays are mutable which can be changed at runtime


Splice() : It can be used add new items to an array.

slice() : Slice out a piece from an array. It creates a new array.


Javascript in the browser : Javascript was initially created to make web pages alive. Js can be written right in a web page's HTML to make it interactive.
- The browser has an embeded engine called javascript engine or the javascript runtime.
- Javscript's ability in the browser is very limited to protect the user's safety for example a webpage on google.com access codeswaer.com and steal information from there.

Developer Tools : 
Every browser has some developer tools which makes a developer's life a lot easier.


 // Advantages of using script Tag
    // 1. Seperation of concerns.
    // 2. Browser caching.


    Console Objects :
    There are many console.objects like :
    1. console.error 
    2. console.alert
    3. console.warn
    4. console.time
    5. console.timeEnd
    6. console.table

    There are many objects you can check by using console.log(console);
    It will show you all the console objects

    User Interactions : alert, prompt, confirm
    You can use them for simplicity but there are some disadvantages like :
    1. It pauses the execution of the script for the user to interact.
       Javascript execution will be paused untill the window is not dismissed.

    2. You will not know the exact location of the modal because browser will decide the direction most of the time modal will come on the top.
    3. And if you want to add some modern looks you cannot do that these are the limitations.


    BOM and DOM : 
    window :It is a global object we can write in this way also window.console.log(windows) -> to check the window object.
    DOM :Document object model -> That means your whole HTML page becomes an object called document.

    BOM : Browser Object Model -> Browser Object model represents additional objects provided by the browser..
          The functions alert, confirm, prompt are also a part of BOM.

          for example when you write the following code like
          location.href = "https://google.com"
          It will redirect to the google page 


 Walking The DOM :

  DOM tree refers to the HTML page where all the nodes are objects.
  - There can be 3 main types of nodes in the DOM tree :
    1. text nodes
    2. element nodes
    3. comment nodes.